Lab 2

Recursive functions

Mathematicians often define functions in terms of themselves. Factorial is a
classic example.  A mathematician would write

            / 1                 when n = 0;
  fact(n) = |
            \ n × f act(n - 1)  otherwise.

This expression means that fact(0)=1, fact(1)=1 x fact(0), fact(2)=2 x fact(1),
and so on.  The folks over in Bond Hall write this on their chalkboards and move
on to other things.  This is fine for the math department, but we are interested
in computing answers.


    To do this, we can turn the sequence around. We would keep a running
product, p=1, and increment some i until it reaches n multiplying as we
go. Something like this

   public static int fact(int n) {
     int p = 1;
     for(int i = 1; i < n; i++) {
       p = p * i;
     }
     return p;
   }

And this actually works quite well.  However, not all recursive functions are so
easily converted to an iterative form like factorial.

An alternative and more robust approach is recursive programming. We know that
functions can call other functions. When functions call themselves, we call it
recursive. The recursive form of factorial would look like this:

   public static int fact(int n) {
      if(n == 0)
         return 1;
      else
         return n * fact(n - 1);
   }

(Editorial Note: This is one of the few times when I am happy with multiple
returns in a function. We are really getting around the fact the Java's
if-expression is clunky and awkward.  It only gets worse as we get more than
just two cases in the recursive definition.)

Did you notice how fact calls itself in the last line? How does this work? When
a function is called, the Java virtual machine creates space for the function's
local variables. This space is called a stack frame. In addition to space for
parameters and local variables, there is a hidden reference to the calling
function and its stack frame.  It is called the dynamic link.

When fact calls itself, it creates a new stack frame for function call with a
correctly initialized dynamic link. So when the 15th call to fact finishes, it
returns its answer to the 14th call to fact. It is all quite elegant if you
think about it. (Editorial Note: That should have been an editorial note.)


Assignment

There are five Java programs that are missing one recursive function.  The first
problem is pretty easy: factorial.  The last example is difficult: Ackermann's
function.  I strongly suggest implementing these function in this order:

   1. Factorial
   2. Fibonacci
   3. GCD
   4. BinarySearch
   5. Ackermann


Grading

 All of the programs should compile with neither errors nor warnings.
 The missing functions are all implemented recursively.
 Multiple commits with a descriptive commit messages.
